# Rails Internazionalization
* Guide extracted from [http://guides.rubyonrails.org/i18n.html](Rails i18n Docu).

## Table of contents
- [1 How I18n in Ruby on Rails Works](#1-how-i18n-in-ruby-on-rails-works)
- [2 Setup Application](#2-setup-application)
- [3 Internationalization and Localization](#3-internationalization-and-localization)
- [4 Overview of the I18n API Features](#4-overview-of-the-i18n-api-features)
- [5 How to Store your Custom Translations](#5-how-to-store-your-custom-translations)
- [6 Customize your I18n Setup](#6-customize-your-i18n-setup)



## 1 How I18n in Ruby on Rails Works
As part of this solution, every static string in the Rails framework - e.g. Active Record validation messages, time and date formats - has been internationalized. Localization of a Rails application means defining translated values for these strings in desired languages.

### 1.1 The Overall Architecture of the Library
Thus, the Ruby I18n gem is split into two parts:

* The public API of the i18n framework - a Ruby module with public methods that define how the library works.
* A default backend (which is intentionally named Simple backend) that implements these methods.

As a user you should always only access the public methods on the I18n module, but it is useful to know about the capabilities of the backend.

It is possible to swap the shipped Simple backend with a more powerful one, which would store translation data in a relational database, GetText dictionary, or similar. See section Using different backends below.

### 1.2 The Public I18n API
The most important methods of the I18n API are:
```shell
translate # Lookup text translations
localize  # Localize Date and Time objects to local formats
```

These have the aliases #t and #l so you can use them like this:
```shell
I18n.t 'store.title'
I18n.l Time.now
```

There are also attribute readers and writers for the following attributes:
```shell
load_path         # Announce your custom translation files
locale            # Get and set the current locale
default_locale    # Get and set the default locale
exception_handler # Use a different exception_handler
backend           # Use a different backend
```


## 2 Setup Application

### 2.1 Configure the I18n Module

Rails adds all .rb and .yml files from the `config/locales` directory to the translations load path, automatically.

The default en.yml locale in this directory contains a sample pair of `
translation strings:
```yaml
en:
  hello: "Hello world"
```

At `config/application.rb` file has instructions on how to add locales from another directory.

```ruby
# The default locale is :en and all translations from config/locales/*.rb,yml are auto loaded.
# config.i18n.load_path += Dir[Rails.root.join('my', 'locales', '*.{rb,yml}').to_s]
# config.i18n.default_locale = :de
```


 To change the default locale from an initializer instead of config/application.rb:
```ruby
# config/initializers/locale.rb
# Where the I18n library should search for translation files
I18n.load_path += Dir[Rails.root.join('lib', 'locale', '*.{rb,yml}')]
# Set default locale to something other than :en
I18n.default_locale = :pt
```

### 2.2. Managing the Locale across Requests

The default locale is used for all translations unless I18n.locale is explicitly set.

Locale should be set at the beginning of each request so that all strings are translated using the desired locale during the lifetime of that request.

The locale can be set in a before_action in the ApplicationController:
before_action :set_locale
 
```ruby
def set_locale
  I18n.locale = params[:locale] || I18n.default_locale
end
```

#### 2.2.1 Setting the Locale from the Domain Name

For example, we want www.example.com to load the English (or default) locale, and www.example.es to load the Spanish locale. Thus the top-level domain name is used for locale setting. This has several advantages:


You can implement it like this in your ApplicationController:
```ruby
before_action :set_locale
 
def set_locale
  I18n.locale = extract_locale_from_tld || I18n.default_locale
end
 
# Get locale from top-level domain or return nil if such locale is not available
# You have to put something like:
#   127.0.0.1 application.com
#   127.0.0.1 application.it
#   127.0.0.1 application.pl
# in your /etc/hosts file to try this out locally
def extract_locale_from_tld
  parsed_locale = request.host.split('.').last
  I18n.available_locales.map(&:to_s).include?(parsed_locale) ? parsed_locale : nil
end
```

We can also set the locale from the subdomain in a very similar way:
```ruby
# Get locale code from request subdomain (like http://it.application.local:3000)
# You have to put something like:
#   127.0.0.1 gr.application.local
# in your /etc/hosts file to try this out locally
def extract_locale_from_subdomain
  parsed_locale = request.subdomains.first
  I18n.available_locales.map(&:to_s).include?(parsed_locale) ? parsed_locale : nil
end
```

If your application includes a locale switching menu, you would then have something like this in it:
```erb
link_to("Deutsch", "#{APP_CONFIG[:deutsch_website_url]}#{request.env['PATH_INFO']}")
```

assuming you would set APP_CONFIG[:deutsch_website_url] to some value like http://www.application.de.

#### 2.2.2 Setting the Locale from URL Params

Ex: `www.example.com/books?locale=ja` or `www.example.com/ja/books`.


Getting the locale from params and setting it accordingly is not hard; including it in every URL and thus passing it through the requests is:
`link_to(books_url(locale: I18n.locale))`, would be tedious and probably impossible, of course.

Rails contains infrastructure for "centralizing dynamic decisions about the URLs" in its ApplicationController#default_url_options, which is useful precisely in this scenario: it enables us to set "defaults" for url_for and helper methods dependent on it (by implementing/overriding default_url_options).

We can include something like this in our ApplicationController then:
```ruby
# app/controllers/application_controller.rb
def default_url_options
  { locale: I18n.locale }
end
```

Every helper method dependent on url_for (e.g. helpers for named routes like root_path or root_url, resource routes like books_path or books_url, etc.) will now automatically include the locale in the query string, like this: `http://localhost:3001/?locale=ja`.

You may be satisfied with this. It does impact the readability of URLs, though, when the locale "hangs" at the end of every URL in your application. Moreover, from the architectural standpoint, locale is usually hierarchically above the other parts of the application domain: and URLs should reflect this.

You probably want URLs to look like this `http://www.example.com/en/books` or `http://www.example.com/en/books`:
```ruby
# config/routes.rb
scope "/:locale" do
  resources :books
end
```

Since the return value of default_url_options is cached per request, the URLs in a locale selector cannot be generated invoking helpers in a loop that sets the corresponding I18n.locale in each iteration. Instead, leave I18n.locale untouched, and pass an explicit :locale option to the helper, or edit request.original_fullpath.

If you **don't want to force the use of a locale in your routes** you can use an optional path scope (denoted by the parentheses) like so:

```ruby
# config/routes.rb
scope "(:locale)", locale: /en|nl/ do
  resources :books
end
```

This is useful for when you want to use the default locale when one is not specified `http://localhost:3001/books`.

Of course, you need to take special care of the root URL (usually "homepage" or "dashboard") of your application. A URL like http://localhost:3001/nl will not work automatically until:

```ruby
# config/routes.rb
get '/:locale' => 'dashboard#index'
```

Do take special care about the order of your routes, so this route declaration does not "eat" other ones. (You may want to add it directly before the root :to declaration.)

Have a look at various gems which simplify working with routes: 
* [routing_filter](https://rubygems.org/gems/routing-filter/versions/0.6.0).
* [rails-translate-routes](https://github.com/francesc/rails-translate-routes).
* [route_translator](https://github.com/enriclluelles/route_translator).

#### 2.2.3 Setting the Locale from User Preferences

An application with authenticated users may allow users to set a locale preference through the application's interface.
```ruby
def set_locale
  I18n.locale = current_user.try(:locale) || I18n.default_locale
end
```

#### 2.2.4 Choosing an Implied Locale
When an explicit locale has not been set for a request (e.g. via one of the above methods), an application should attempt to infer the desired locale.

##### 2.2.4.1 Inferring Locale from the Language Header
Browsers user's language preference settings, making it a good first choice when inferring a locale.

```ruby
def set_locale
  logger.debug "* Accept-Language: #{request.env['HTTP_ACCEPT_LANGUAGE']}"
  I18n.locale = extract_locale_from_accept_language_header
  logger.debug "* Locale set to '#{I18n.locale}'"
end
 
private
  def extract_locale_from_accept_language_header
    request.env['HTTP_ACCEPT_LANGUAGE'].scan(/^[a-z]{2}/).first
  end
```

In practice, more robust code is necessary to do this reliably. Iain Hecker's http_accept_language library or Ryan Tomayko's locale Rack middleware provide solutions to this problem.

##### 2.2.4.2 Inferring the Locale from IP Geolocation
The IP address of the client making the request can be used to infer the client's region and thus their locale. Services such as GeoIP Lite Country or gems like geocoder can be used to implement this approach.

In general, this approach is far less reliable than using the language header and is not recommended for most web applications.

#### 2.2.5 Storing the Locale from the Session or Cookies
You may be tempted to store the chosen locale in a session or a cookie. However, do not do this. The locale should be transparent and a part of the URL. This way you won't break people's basic assumptions about the web itself: if you send a URL to a friend, they should see the same page and content as you. A fancy word for this would be that you're being RESTful. Read more about the RESTful approach in [Stefan Tilkov's articles](https://www.infoq.com/articles/rest-introduction). Sometimes there are exceptions to this rule and those are discussed below.

## 3 Internationalization and Localization

Given the following example:
```ruby
# config/routes.rb
Rails.application.routes.draw do
  root to: "home#index"
end
```

```ruby
# app/controllers/application_controller.rb
class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
  before_action :set_locale
 
  def set_locale
    I18n.locale = params[:locale] || I18n.default_locale
  end
end
```

```ruby
# app/controllers/home_controller.rb
class HomeController < ApplicationController
  def index
    flash[:notice] = "Hello Flash"
  end
end
```

```erb
# app/views/home/index.html.erb
<h1>Hello World</h1>
<p><%= flash[:notice] %></p>
```

### 3.1 Abstracting Localized Code
Previous trings need to be replaced by calls to Rails' #t helper with an appropriate key for each string:
```ruby
# app/controllers/home_controller.rb
class HomeController < ApplicationController
  def index
    flash[:notice] = t(:hello_flash)
  end
end
```

```erb
# app/views/home/index.html.erb
<h1><%=t :hello_world %></h1>
<p><%= flash[:notice] %></p>
```

Now, when this view is rendered, it will show an error message which tells you that the translations for the keys :hello_world and :hello_flash are missing.

Rails adds a t (translate) helper method to your views so that you do not need to spell out I18n.t all the time. Additionally this helper will catch missing translations and wrap the resulting error message into a `<span class="translation_missing">`.


### 3.2 Providing Translations for Internationalized Strings

Add the missing translations into the translation dictionary files:
```yaml
# config/locales/en.yml
en:
  hello_world: Hello world!
  hello_flash: Hello flash!
```
 
```yaml
# config/locales/pirate.yml
pirate:
  hello_world: Ahoy World
  hello_flash: Ahoy Flash
```

If the locale is set via the URL to the pirate locale (http://localhost:3000?locale=pirate), the response renders the pirate strings:


You **need to restart the server when you add new locale** files.

You may use YAML (.yml) or plain Ruby (.rb) files for storing your translations in SimpleStore. YAML is the preferred option among Rails developers. However, it has one big disadvantage. YAML is very sensitive to whitespace and special characters, so the application may not load your dictionary properly. Ruby files will crash your application on first request, so you may easily find what's wrong. (If you encounter any "weird issues" with YAML dictionaries, try putting the relevant portion of your dictionary into a Ruby file.)


### 3.3 Passing Variables to Translations
One key consideration for successfully internationalizing an application is to avoid making incorrect assumptions about grammar rules when abstracting localized code. Grammar rules that seem fundamental in one locale may not hold true in another one.

Improper abstraction example, where assumptions are made about the ordering of the different parts of the translation. Note that Rails provides a number_to_currency helper to handle the following case.

```erb
# app/views/products/show.html.erb
<%= "#{t('currency')}#{@product.price}" %>
```

```yaml
# config/locales/en.yml
en:
  currency: "$"
 
# config/locales/es.yml
es:
  currency: "€"
```

If the product's price is 10 then the proper translation for Spanish is "10 €" instead of "€10" but the abstraction cannot give it.

To create proper abstraction, the I18n gem ships with a feature called **variable interpolation** that allows you to use variables in translation definitions and pass the values for these variables to the translation method.

```erb
# app/views/products/show.html.erb
<%= t('product_price', price: @product.price) %>
```

```yaml
# config/locales/en.yml
en:
  product_price: "$%{price}"
 
# config/locales/es.yml
es:
  product_price: "%{price} €"
```

All grammatical and punctuation decisions are made in the definition itself, so the abstraction can give a proper translation.

The default and scope keywords are reserved and can't be used as variable names. If used, an I18n::ReservedInterpolationKey exception is raised. If a translation expects an interpolation variable, but this has not been passed to #translate, an I18n::MissingInterpolationArgument exception is raised.


### 3.4 Adding Date/Time Formats

Use Rails' #l helper. You can pick a format by passing the :format option - by default the :default format is used.

```erb
# app/views/home/index.html.erb
<h1><%=t :hello_world %></h1>
<p><%= flash[:notice] %></p>
<p><%= l Time.now, format: :short %></p>
```

And in our pirate translations file let's add a time format (it's already there in Rails' defaults for English):

```yaml
# config/locales/pirate.yml
pirate:
  time:
    formats:
      short: "arrrround %H'ish"
```


Right now you might need to add some more date/time formats in order to make the I18n backend work as expected (at least for the 'pirate' locale). Of course, there's a great chance that somebody already did all the work by translating Rails' defaults for your locale. See the [rails-i18n repository at GitHub](https://github.com/svenfuchs/rails-i18n/tree/master/rails/locale) for an archive of various locale files. When you put such file(s) in config/locales/ directory, they will automatically be ready for use.


### 3.5 Inflection Rules For Other Locales
Rails allows you to define inflection rules (such as rules for singularization and pluralization) for locales other than English in `config/initializers/inflections.rb`, you can define these rules for multiple locales.


### 3.6 Localized Views
Let's say you have a `BooksController` in your application. Your index action renders content in `app/views/books/index.html.erb` template. When you put a localized variant of this template: `index.es.html.erb` Rails will render content in this template, when the locale is set to `:es`.

### 3.7 Organization of Locale Files
When you are using the default SimpleStore shipped with the i18n library, dictionaries are stored in plain-text files on the disk. Putting translations for all parts of your application in one file per locale could be hard to manage. You can store these files in a hierarchy which makes sense to you.

For example, your `config/locales` directory could look like this:
```shell
|-defaults
|---es.rb
|---en.rb
|-models
|---book
|-----es.rb
|-----en.rb
|-views
|---defaults
|-----es.rb
|-----en.rb
|---books
|-----es.rb
|-----en.rb
|---users
|-----es.rb
|-----en.rb
|---navigation
|-----es.rb
|-----en.rb
```

This way, you can separate model and model attribute names from text inside views, and all of this from the "defaults" (e.g. date and time formats). Other stores for the i18n library could provide different means of such separation.

The default locale loading mechanism in Rails does not load locale files in nested dictionaries, like we have here. So, for this to work, we must explicitly tell Rails to look further:
```ruby
# config/application.rb
config.i18n.load_path += Dir[Rails.root.join('config', 'locales', '**', '*.{rb,yml}')]
```

## 4 Overview of the I18n API Features

### 4.1 Looking up Translations
#### 4.1.1 Basic Lookup, Scopes and Nested Keys

Translations are looked up by keys which can be both Symbols or Strings, so these calls are equivalent:
```ruby
I18n.t :message
I18n.t 'message'
```

The translate method also takes a :scope option which can contain one or more additional keys that will be used to specify a "namespace" or scope for a translation key:
```ruby
I18n.t :record_invalid, scope: [:activerecord, :errors, :messages]
```

This looks up the :record_invalid message in the Active Record error messages.

Additionally, both the key and scopes can be specified as dot-separated keys as in:
```ruby
I18n.translate "activerecord.errors.messages.record_invalid"
```

Thus the following calls are equivalent:
```ruby
18n.t 'activerecord.errors.messages.record_invalid'
I18n.t 'errors.messages.record_invalid', scope: :activerecord
I18n.t :record_invalid, scope: 'activerecord.errors.messages'
I18n.t :record_invalid, scope: [:activerecord, :errors, :messages]
```

#### 4.1.2 Defaults
When a :default option is given, its value will be returned if the translation is missing:
```ruby
I18n.t :missing, default: 'Not here'
# => 'Not here'
```

If the :default value is a Symbol, it will be used as a key and translated. One can provide multiple values as default. The first one that results in a value will be returned.

E.g., the following first tries to translate the key :missing and then the key :also_missing. As both do not yield a result, the string "Not here" will be returned:
```ruby
I18n.t :missing, default: [:also_missing, 'Not here']
# => 'Not here'
```

#### 4.1.3 Bulk and Namespace Lookup

To look up multiple translations at once, an array of keys can be passed:
```ruby
I18n.t [:odd, :even], scope: 'errors.messages'
# => ["must be odd", "must be even"]
```

Also, a key can translate to a (potentially nested) hash of grouped translations. E.g., one can receive all Active Record error messages as a Hash with:
```ruby
I18n.t 'activerecord.errors.messages'
# => {:inclusion=>"is not included in the list", :exclusion=> ... }
```

#### 4.1.4 "Lazy" Lookup
Rails implements a convenient way to look up the locale inside views. When you have the following dictionary:
```yaml
es:
  books:
    index:
      title: "Título"
```

you can look up the books.index.title value inside `app/views/books/index.html.erb` template like this (note the dot):
```erb
<%= t '.title' %>
```

Automatic translation scoping by partial is only available from the translate view helper method.

"Lazy" lookup can also be used in controllers:
```yaml
en:
  books:
    create:
      success: Book created!
```

This is useful for setting flash messages for instance:
```ruby
class BooksController < ApplicationController
  def create
    # ...
    redirect_to books_url, notice: t('.success')
  end
end
```

### 4.2 Pluralization
The **:count interpolation variable** has a special role in that it both is interpolated to the translation and used to pick a pluralization from the translations according to the pluralization rules defined by CLDR:
```ruby
I18n.backend.store_translations :en, inbox: {
  one: 'one message',
  other: '%{count} messages'
}
```
```ruby
I18n.translate :inbox, count: 2
# => '2 messages'
 
I18n.translate :inbox, count: 1
# => 'one message'
```

The **algorithm for pluralizations** in :en is as simple as:
```ruby
entry[count == 1 ? 0 : 1]
```

If the lookup for the key does not return a Hash suitable for pluralization, an I18n::InvalidPluralizationData exception is raised.

### 4.3 Setting and Passing a Locale
The locale can be either set pseudo-globally to I18n.locale (which uses Thread.current like, e.g., Time.zone) or can be passed as an option to #translate and #localize.

If no locale is passed, I18n.locale is used:
```ruby
I18n.locale = :de
I18n.t :foo
I18n.l Time.now
```

Explicitly passing a locale:
```ruby
I18n.t :foo, locale: :de
I18n.l Time.now, locale: :de
```

The I18n.locale defaults to I18n.default_locale which defaults to :en. The default locale can be set like this:
```ruby
I18n.default_locale = :de
```

### 4.4 Using Safe HTML Translations
Keys with a `_html` suffix and keys named `html` are marked as HTML safe. When you use them in views the HTML will not be escaped.
```yaml
# config/locales/en.yml
en:
  welcome: <b>welcome!</b>
  hello_html: <b>hello!</b>
  title:
    html: <b>title!</b>
```

```erb
# app/views/home/index.html.erb
<div><%= t('welcome') %></div>
<div><%= raw t('welcome') %></div>
<div><%= t('hello_html') %></div>
<div><%= t('title.html') %></div>
```

Interpolation escapes as needed though. For example, given:
```erb
en:
welcome_html: "<b>Welcome %{username}!</b>"
```

you can safely pass the username as set by the user:
```erb
<%# This is safe, it is going to be escaped if needed. %>
<%= t('welcome_html', username: @current_user.username) %>
```


Automatic conversion to HTML safe translate text is only available from the translate view helper method.

### 4.5 Translations for Active Record Models

You can use the methods Model.model_name.human and Model.human_attribute_name(attribute) to transparently look up translations for your model and attribute names.

For example when you add the following translations:
```yaml
en:
  activerecord:
    models:
      user: Dude
    attributes:
      user:
        login: "Handle"
      # will translate User attribute "login" as "Handle"
```

Then User.model_name.human will return "Dude" and User.human_attribute_name("login") will return "Handle".

You can also set a **plural form for model names**, adding as following:
en:
```yaml
  activerecord:
    models:
      user:
        one: Dude
        other: Dudes
```

Then User.model_name.human(count: 2) will return "Dudes". With count: 1 or without params will return "Dude".

In the event you need to access **nested attributes** within a given model, you should nest these under model/attribute at the model level of your translation file:
en:
```yaml
  activerecord:
    attributes:
      user/gender:
        female: "Female"
        male: "Male"
```

Then User.human_attribute_name("gender.female") will return "Female".

If you are using a class which includes ActiveModel and does not inherit from ActiveRecord::Base, replace activerecord with activemodel in the above key paths.

#### 4.5.1 Error Message Scopes
Active Record gives you a couple of namespaces where you can place your message translations in order to provide different messages and translation for certain models, attributes, and/or validations. It also transparently takes single table inheritance into account.

Consider a User model with a validation for the name attribute like this:
```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  validates :name, presence: true
end
```

The key for the error message in this case is :blank. Active Record will look up this key in the namespaces:
```ruby
activerecord.errors.models.[model_name].attributes.[attribute_name]
activerecord.errors.models.[model_name]
activerecord.errors.messages
errors.attributes.[attribute_name]
errors.messages
```

Thus, in our example it will try the following keys in this order and return the first result:
```ruby
activerecord.errors.models.user.attributes.name.blank
activerecord.errors.models.user.blank
activerecord.errors.messages.blank
errors.attributes.name.blank
errors.messages.blank
```

When your models are additionally using inheritance then the messages are looked up in the inheritance chain.

For example, you might have an Admin model inheriting from User:
```ruby
class Admin < User
  validates :name, presence: true
end
```

Then Active Record will look for messages in this order:
```ruby
activerecord.errors.models.admin.attributes.name.blank
activerecord.errors.models.admin.blank
activerecord.errors.models.user.attributes.name.blank
activerecord.errors.models.user.blank
activerecord.errors.messages.blank
errors.attributes.name.blank
errors.messages.blank
```

This way you can provide special translations for various error messages at different points in your models inheritance chain and in the attributes, models, or default scopes.

#### 4.5.2 Error Message Interpolation
The translated model name, translated attribute name, and value are always available for interpolation.

So, for example, instead of the default error message "cannot be blank" you could use the attribute name like this : "Please fill in your %{attribute}". count, where available, can be used for pluralization if present:

validation | with option | message | interpolation
--- | --- | --- | --- 
confirmation | - | :confirmation | attribute
acceptance  | - | :accepted | -
presence | - | :blank  | -
absence  | - | :present | -
length  | :within, :in | :too_short  | count
length  | :within, :in | :too_long | count
length  | :is  | :wrong_length | count
length  | :minimum | :too_short  | count
length  | :maximum | :too_long | count
uniqueness  | - | :taken  | -
format  | - | :invalid | -
inclusion | - | :inclusion | -
exclusion | - | :exclusion | -
associated  | - | :invalid | -
numericality | - | :not_a_number | -
numericality | :greater_than | :greater_than | count
numericality | :greater_than_or_equal_to | :greater_than_or_equal_to | count
numericality | :equal_to | :equal_to | count
numericality | :less_than  | :less_than | count
numericality | :less_than_or_equal_to | :less_than_or_equal_to | count
numericality | :other_than  | :other_than  | count
numericality | :only_integer | :not_an_integer  | -
numericality | :odd | :odd | -
numericality | :even | :even | -


### 4.5.3 Translations for the Active Record error_messages_for Helper
Rails ships with the following translations:
```yaml
en:
  activerecord:
    errors:
      template:
        header:
          one:   "1 error prohibited this %{model} from being saved"
          other: "%{count} errors prohibited this %{model} from being saved"
        body:    "There were problems with the following fields:"
```

In order to use this helper, you need to install DynamicForm gem by adding this line to your Gemfile: 
```yaml
gem 'dynamic_form'.
```

### 4.6 Translations for Action Mailer E-Mail Subjects
If you don't pass a subject to the mail method, Action Mailer will try to find it in your translations. The performed lookup will use the pattern <mailer_scope>.<action_name>.subject to construct the key.
```ruby
# user_mailer.rb
class UserMailer < ActionMailer::Base
  def welcome(user)
    #...
  end
end
```

```yaml
en:
  user_mailer:
    welcome:
      subject: "Welcome to Rails Guides!"
```

To send parameters to interpolation use the default_i18n_subject method on the mailer.
```ruby
# user_mailer.rb
class UserMailer < ActionMailer::Base
  def welcome(user)
    mail(to: user.email, subject: default_i18n_subject(user: user.name))
  end
end
```
```yaml
en:
  user_mailer:
    welcome:
      subject: "%{user}, welcome to Rails Guides!"
```

### 4.7 Overview of Other Built-In Methods that Provide I18n Support

#### 4.7.1 Action View Helper Methods

* `distance_of_time_in_words` translates and pluralizes its result and interpolates the number of seconds, minutes, hours, and so on. See [datetime.distance_in_words](https://github.com/rails/rails/blob/master/actionview/lib/action_view/locale/en.yml#L4) translations.
* `datetime_select` and `select_month` use translated month names for populating the resulting select tag. See date.month_names for translations. datetime_select also looks up the order option from date.order (unless you pass the option explicitly). All date selection helpers translate the prompt using the translations in the datetime.prompts scope if applicable.
* The `number_to_currency`, `number_with_precision`, `number_to_percentage`, `number_with_delimiter`, and `number_to_human_size` helpers use the number format settings located in the number scope.

#### 4.7.2 Active Model Methods

* `model_name.human` and `human_attribute_name` use translations for model names and attribute names if available in the activerecord.models scope. They also support translations for inherited class names (e.g. for use with STI) as explained above in "Error message scopes".
* `ActiveModel::Errors#generate_message` (which is used by Active Model validations but may also be used manually) uses model_name.human and human_attribute_name (see above). It also translates the error message and supports translations for inherited class names as explained above in "Error message scopes".
* `ActiveModel::Errors#full_messages` prepends the attribute name to the error message using a separator that will be looked up from errors.format (and which defaults to "%{attribute} %{message}").

#### 4.7.3 Active Support Methods

* `Array#to_sentence` uses format settings as given in the support.array scope.

## 5 How to Store your Custom Translations

The Simple backend shipped with Active Support allows you to store translations in both plain Ruby and YAML format.2

For example a Ruby Hash providing translations can look like this:
```ruby
{
  pt: {
    foo: {
      bar: "baz"
    }
  }
}
```
The equivalent YAML file would look like this:
```yaml
pt:
  foo:
    bar: baz
```

As you see, in both cases the top level key is the locale. :foo is a namespace key and :bar is the key for the translation "baz".

Here is a **"real" example from the Active Support** en.yml translations YAML file:

```yaml
en:
  date:
    formats:
      default: "%Y-%m-%d"
      short: "%b %d"
      long: "%B %d, %Y"
```

So, all of the following equivalent lookups will return the :short date format "%b %d":
```ruby
I18n.t 'date.formats.short'
I18n.t 'formats.short', scope: :date
I18n.t :short, scope: 'date.formats'
I18n.t :short, scope: [:date, :formats]
```

Generally we recommend using YAML as a format for storing translations.

## 6 Customize your I18n Setup

### 6.1 Using Different Backends
For several reasons the Simple backend shipped with Active Support only does the "simplest thing that could possibly work" for Ruby on Rails3 ... which means that it is only guaranteed to work for English and, as a side effect, languages that are very similar to English. Also, the simple backend is only capable of reading translations but cannot dynamically store them to any format.

That does not mean you're stuck with these limitations, though. The Ruby I18n gem makes it very easy to exchange the Simple backend implementation with something else that fits better for your needs. E.g. you could exchange it with Globalize's Static backend:
```ruby
I18n.backend = Globalize::Backend::Static.new
```

You can also use the Chain backend to chain multiple backends together. This is useful when you want to use standard translations with a Simple backend but store custom application translations in a database or other backends. For example, you could use the Active Record backend and fall back to the (default) Simple backend:
```ruby
I18n.backend = I18n::Backend::Chain.new(I18n::Backend::ActiveRecord.new, I18n.backend)
```

### 6.2 Using Different Exception Handlers
The I18n API defines the following exceptions that will be raised by backends when the corresponding unexpected conditions occur:
```shell
MissingTranslationData       # no translation was found for the requested key
InvalidLocale                # the locale set to I18n.locale is invalid (e.g. nil)
InvalidPluralizationData     # a count option was passed but the translation data is not suitable for pluralization
MissingInterpolationArgument # the translation expects an interpolation argument that has not been passed
ReservedInterpolationKey     # the translation contains a reserved interpolation variable name (i.e. one of: scope, default)
UnknownFileType              # the backend does not know how to handle a file type that was added to I18n.load_path
```

The I18n API will catch all of these exceptions when they are thrown in the backend and pass them to the `default_exception_handler` method. This method will re-raise all exceptions except for MissingTranslationData exceptions. When a MissingTranslationData exception has been caught, it will return the exception's error message string containing the missing key/scope.

The reason for this is that during development you'd usually want your **views to still render even though a translation is missing**.

In other contexts you might want to change this behavior, though. E.g. the default exception handling does not allow to catch missing translations during automated tests easily. For this purpose a different exception handler can be specified. The specified exception handler must be a method on the I18n module or a class with #call method:
module I18n
```ruby
  class JustRaiseExceptionHandler < ExceptionHandler
    def call(exception, locale, key, options)
      if exception.is_a?(MissingTranslationData)
        raise exception.to_exception
      else
        super
      end
    end
  end
end
 
I18n.exception_handler = I18n::JustRaiseExceptionHandler.new
```

This would re-raise only the MissingTranslationData exception, passing all other input to the default exception handler.

However, if you are using `I18n::Backend::Pluralization` this handler will also `raise I18n::MissingTranslationData: translation missing: en.i18n.plural.rule` exception that should normally be ignored to fall back to the default pluralization rule for English locale. To **avoid this** you may use additional check for translation key:
```ruby
if exception.is_a?(MissingTranslationData) && key.to_s != 'i18n.plural.rule'
  raise exception.to_exception
else
  super
end
```

Another example where the default behavior is less desirable is the Rails TranslationHelper which provides the method #t (as well as #translate). When a MissingTranslationData exception occurs in this context, the helper wraps the message into a span with the CSS class translation_missing.

To do so, the helper forces I18n#translate to raise exceptions no matter what exception handler is defined by setting the :raise option:

```ruby
I18n.t :foo, raise: true # always re-raises exceptions from the backend
```

